---
TOCTitle: 'MS11-010'
Title: 'Boletín de seguridad de Microsoft MS11-010 - Importante'
ms:assetid: 'ms11-010'
ms:contentKeyID: 61225990
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/es-ES/library/ms11-010(v=Security.10)'
---

Security Bulletin

Boletín de seguridad de Microsoft MS11-010 - Importante
=======================================================

Vulnerability in Windows Client/Server Run-time Subsystem Could Allow Elevation of Privilege (2476687)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Publicado: martes, 8 de febrero de 2011

**Versión:** 1.0

### General Information

#### Executive Summary

This security update resolves a privately reported vulnerability in the Microsoft Windows Client/Server Run-time Subsystem (CSRSS) in Windows XP and Windows Server 2003. This security update is rated Important for all supported editions of these operating systems. For more information, see the subsection, **Affected and Non-Affected Software**, in this section.

The vulnerability could allow elevation of privilege if an attacker logs on to a user's system and starts a specially crafted application that continues running after the attacker logs off in order to obtain the logon credentials of subsequent users. An attacker must have valid logon credentials and be able to log on locally to exploit this vulnerability. The vulnerability could not be exploited remotely or by anonymous users.

The security update addresses the vulnerability by correcting the manner in which user processes are terminated upon logoff. For more information about the vulnerability, see the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) subsection for the specific vulnerability entry under the next section, **Vulnerability Information**.

**Recommendation.** The majority of customers have automatic updating enabled and will not need to take any action because this security update will be downloaded and installed automatically. Customers who have not enabled automatic updating need to check for updates and install this update manually. For information about specific configuration options in automatic updating, see [Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 294871](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/294871).

For administrators and enterprise installations, or end users who want to install this security update manually, Microsoft recommends that customers apply the update at the earliest opportunity using update management software, or by checking for updates using the [Microsoft Update](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=40747) service.

See also the section, **Detection and Deployment Tools and Guidance**, later in this bulletin.

**Known Issues.** None

#### Affected and Non-Affected Software

The following software have been tested to determine which versions or editions are affected. Other versions or editions are either past their support life cycle or are not affected. To determine the support life cycle for your software version or edition, visit [Microsoft Support Lifecycle](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=21742).

**Affected Software**

| Operating System                                                                                                                                        | Maximum Security Impact | Aggregate Severity Rating | Bulletins Replaced by this Update                         |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| [Windows XP Service Pack 3](http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=cfa10178-9859-4e03-bedc-e3f5297a0251)                              | Elevation of Privilege  | Important                 | [MS10-011](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=179798) |
| [Windows XP Professional x64 Edition Service Pack 2](http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=9f0b7b77-5b90-4a4b-97a4-0c1ce6a70126)     | Elevation of Privilege  | Important                 | [MS10-011](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=179798) |
| [Windows Server 2003 Service Pack 2](http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=aed08b96-24cc-4e23-8fd5-c7e52f8ef41a)                     | Elevation of Privilege  | Important                 | [MS10-011](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=179798) |
| [Windows Server 2003 x64 Edition Service Pack 2](http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=ca7879e1-e295-445d-a658-0a31be1928cc)         | Elevation of Privilege  | Important                 | [MS10-011](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=179798) |
| [Windows Server 2003 with SP2 for Itanium-based Systems](http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=50855101-a15c-4c81-ad81-a7fe3f1d2026) | Elevation of Privilege  | Important                 | [MS10-011](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=179798) |

**Non-Affected Software**

| Operating System                                                                                               |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Windows Vista Service Pack 1 and Windows Vista Service Pack 2                                                  |
| Windows Vista x64 Edition Service Pack 1 and Windows Vista x64 Edition Service Pack 2                          |
| Windows Server 2008 for 32-bit Systems and Windows Server 2008 for 32-bit Systems Service Pack 2               |
| Windows Server 2008 for x64-based Systems and Windows Server 2008 for x64-based Systems Service Pack 2         |
| Windows Server 2008 for Itanium-based Systems and Windows Server 2008 for Itanium-based Systems Service Pack 2 |
| Windows 7 for 32-bit Systems                                                                                   |
| Windows 7 for x64-based Systems                                                                                |
| Windows Server 2008 R2 for x64-based Systems                                                                   |
| Windows Server 2008 R2 for Itanium-based Systems                                                               |

Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Related to This Security Update
----------------------------------------------------------------

**Where are the file information details?**  
Refer to the reference tables in the **Security Update Deployment** section for the location of the file information details.

**I am using an older release of the software discussed in this security bulletin. What should I do?**  
The affected software listed in this bulletin have been tested to determine which releases are affected. Other releases are past their support life cycle. For more information about the product lifecycle, visit the [Microsoft Support Lifecycle](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=21742) Web site.

It should be a priority for customers who have older releases of the software to migrate to supported releases to prevent potential exposure to vulnerabilities. To determine the support lifecycle for your software release, see [Select a Product for Lifecycle Information](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=169555). For more information about service packs for these software releases, see [Lifecycle Supported Service Packs](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=89213).

Customers who require custom support for older software must contact their Microsoft account team representative, their Technical Account Manager, or the appropriate Microsoft partner representative for custom support options. Customers without an Alliance, Premier, or Authorized Contract can contact their local Microsoft sales office. For contact information, visit the [Microsoft Worldwide Information](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=33329) Web site, select the country in the Contact Information list, and then click **Go** to see a list of telephone numbers. When you call, ask to speak with the local Premier Support sales manager. For more information, see the [Microsoft Support Lifecycle Policy FAQ](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=169557).

### Vulnerability Information

Severity Ratings and Vulnerability Identifiers
----------------------------------------------

The following severity ratings assume the potential maximum impact of the vulnerability. For information regarding the likelihood, within 30 days of this security bulletin's release, of the exploitability of the vulnerability in relation to its severity rating and security impact, please see the Exploitability Index in the [February bulletin summary](http://technet.microsoft.com/security/bulletin/ms11-feb). For more information, see [Microsoft Exploitability Index](http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/security/cc998259.aspx).

 
<p> </p>
<table style="border:1px solid black;">
<caption>Vulnerability Severity Rating and Maximum Security Impact by Affected Software</caption>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th style="border:1px solid black;" >Affected Software</th>
<th style="border:1px solid black;" >CSRSS Elevation of Privilege Vulnerability - CVE-2011-0030</th>
<th style="border:1px solid black;" >Aggregate Severity Rating</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Windows XP Service Pack 3</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Important</strong> <br />
Elevation of Privilege</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Important</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Windows XP Professional x64 Edition Service Pack 2</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Important</strong> <br />
Elevation of Privilege</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Important</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Windows Server 2003 Service Pack 2</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Important</strong> <br />
Elevation of Privilege</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Important</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Windows Server 2003 x64 Edition Service Pack 2</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Important</strong> <br />
Elevation of Privilege</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Important</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Windows Server 2003 with SP2 for Itanium-based Systems</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Important</strong> <br />
Elevation of Privilege</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Important</strong></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
  
CSRSS Elevation of Privilege Vulnerability - CVE-2011-0030  
----------------------------------------------------------
  
An elevation of privilege vulnerability exists in the way that the Windows Client/Server Run-time Subsystem (CSRSS) terminates a process when a user logs off. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could run code designed to monitor the actions of a user who subsequently logged on to the system. This could allow the disclosure of sensitive information or access to data on the affected systems that was accessible to the logged-on user. This sensitive data could include the logon credentials of subsequent users, which an attacker might later use for elevation of privilege or to execute code as a different user on the system. Note that this vulnerability would not allow an attacker to execute code or to elevate their user rights directly. It could be used to collect useful information to try to further compromise the affected system. If a user with administrative privileges subsequently logs on to the system, the attacker could run arbitrary code in kernel mode. An attacker could then install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full system rights.
  
To view this vulnerability as a standard entry in the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures list, see [CVE-2011-0030](http://www.cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=cve-2011-0030).
  
#### Mitigating Factors for CSRSS Elevation of Privilege Vulnerability - CVE-2011-0030
  
Mitigation refers to a setting, common configuration, or general best-practice, existing in a default state, that could reduce the severity of exploitation of a vulnerability. The following mitigating factors may be helpful in your situation:
  
-   An attacker must have valid logon credentials and be able to log on locally to exploit this vulnerability. The vulnerability could not be exploited remotely or by anonymous users.
  
#### Workarounds for CSRSS Elevation of Privilege Vulnerability - CVE-2011-0030
  
Microsoft has not identified any workarounds for this vulnerability.
  
#### FAQ for CSRSS Elevation of Privilege Vulnerability - CVE-2011-0030
  
**What is the scope of the vulnerability?**   
This is an elevation of privilege vulnerability. An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could take complete control of an affected system. An attacker could then install programs; view, change, or delete data; or create new accounts with full system rights. To attempt to exploit the vulnerability, an attacker must be able to log on locally to the system and run a program.
  
**What causes the vulnerability?**   
The vulnerability is caused when the Windows Client/Server Run-time Subsystem (CSRSS) does not properly terminate user processes when a user logs off a system.
  
**What is the Client/Server Run-time Subsystem?**   
The Client/Server Run-time Subsystem (CSRSS) is the user-mode portion of the Win32 subsystem. CSRSS is an essential subsystem that must be running at all times. CSRSS is responsible for console windows, and creating and/or deleting threads.
  
**What might an attacker use the vulnerability to do?**   
An attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could run code designed to monitor the actions of a user who subsequently logged on to the system. This could allow the disclosure of sensitive information or access to data on the affected systems that was accessible to the logged-on user. This sensitive data includes credentials that could be later used by an attacker to elevate their privileges or execute code as a different user on the system. Once this sensitive information has been exposed, an attacker who successfully exploited this vulnerability could run code at the privilege level of a user who had subsequently logged on to the system. If an administrator logged on to the system, the attacker's code would execute with elevated privileges.
  
**How could an attacker exploit the vulnerability?**   
To exploit this vulnerability, an attacker would first have to log on to the system. An attacker could then start a specially crafted application that is designed to continue running after the attacker logs off. When a new user logs on with their own credentials, the attacker's process could monitor all actions performed by the newly logged-on user. If the newly logged-on user is an administrator, the information disclosed could be used to try to further compromise the affected system.
  
**What systems are primarily at risk from the vulnerability?**   
Systems where multiple users have permissions to log on locally and run untrusted applications are at the most risk from this vulnerability.
  
**What does the update do?**   
The update addresses the vulnerability by correcting the manner in which user processes are terminated upon logoff.
  
**When this security bulletin was issued, had this vulnerability been publicly disclosed?**   
No. Microsoft received information about this vulnerability through coordinated vulnerability disclosure.
  
**When this security bulletin was issued, had Microsoft received any reports that this vulnerability was being exploited?**   
No. Microsoft had not received any information to indicate that this vulnerability had been publicly used to attack customers when this security bulletin was originally issued.
  
### Update Information
  
Detection and Deployment Tools and Guidance  
-------------------------------------------
  
**Security Central**
  
Manage the software and security updates you need to deploy to the servers, desktop, and mobile systems in your organization. For more information see the [TechNet Update Management Center](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=69903). The [Microsoft TechNet Security Web site](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=21132) provides additional information about security in Microsoft products.
  
Security updates are available from [Microsoft Update](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=40747) and [Windows Update](http://update.microsoft.com). Security updates are also available from the [Microsoft Download Center](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=21129). You can find them most easily by doing a keyword search for "security update."
  
Finally, security updates can be downloaded from the [Microsoft Update Catalog](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=96155). The Microsoft Update Catalog provides a searchable catalog of content made available through Windows Update and Microsoft Update, including security updates, drivers and service packs. By searching using the security bulletin number (such as, "MS07-036"), you can add all of the applicable updates to your basket (including different languages for an update), and download to the folder of your choosing. For more information about the Microsoft Update Catalog, see the [Microsoft Update Catalog FAQ](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=97900).
  
**Detection and Deployment Guidance**
  
Microsoft provides detection and deployment guidance for security updates. This guidance contains recommendations and information that can help IT professionals understand how to use various tools for detection and deployment of security updates. For more information, see [Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 961747](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/961747).
  
**Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer**
  
Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer (MBSA) allows administrators to scan local and remote systems for missing security updates as well as common security misconfigurations. For more information about MBSA, visit [Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer](http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/tools/mbsahome.mspx).
  
The following table provides the MBSA detection summary for this security update.
  
| Software                                               | MBSA |  
|--------------------------------------------------------|------|  
| Windows XP Service Pack 3                              | Yes  |  
| Windows XP Professional x64 Edition Service Pack 2     | Yes  |  
| Windows Server 2003 Service Pack 2                     | Yes  |  
| Windows Server 2003 x64 Edition Service Pack 2         | Yes  |  
| Windows Server 2003 with SP2 for Itanium-based Systems | Yes  |
  
**Note** For customers using legacy software not supported by the latest release of MBSA, Microsoft Update, and Windows Server Update Services, please visit [Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer](http://www.microsoft.com/technet/security/tools/mbsahome.mspx) and reference the Legacy Product Support section on how to create comprehensive security update detection with legacy tools.
  
**Windows Server Update Services**
  
Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) enables information technology administrators to deploy the latest Microsoft product updates to computers that are running the Windows operating system. For more information about how to deploy security updates using Windows Server Update Services, see the TechNet article, [Windows Server Update Services](http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/wsus/default.aspx).
  
**Systems Management Server**
  
The following table provides the SMS detection and deployment summary for this security update.
  
| Software                                               | SMS 2.0 | SMS 2003 with SUIT | SMS 2003 with ITMU | Configuration Manager 2007 |  
|--------------------------------------------------------|---------|--------------------|--------------------|----------------------------|  
| Windows XP Service Pack 3                              | Yes     | Yes                | Yes                | Yes                        |  
| Windows XP Professional x64 Edition Service Pack 2     | No      | No                 | Yes                | Yes                        |  
| Windows Server 2003 Service Pack 2                     | Yes     | Yes                | Yes                | Yes                        |  
| Windows Server 2003 x64 Edition Service Pack 2         | No      | No                 | Yes                | Yes                        |  
| Windows Server 2003 with SP2 for Itanium-based Systems | No      | No                 | Yes                | Yes                        |
  
For SMS 2.0 and SMS 2003, the Security Update Inventory Tool (SUIT) can be used by SMS to detect security updates. See also [Downloads for Systems Management Server 2.0](http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sms/bb676799.aspx).
  
For SMS 2003, the SMS 2003 Inventory Tool for Microsoft Updates (ITMU) can be used by SMS to detect security updates that are offered by [Microsoft Update](http://update.microsoft.com/microsoftupdate) and that are supported by [Windows Server Update Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=50120). For more information about the SMS 2003 ITMU, see [SMS 2003 Inventory Tool for Microsoft Updates](http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sms/bb676783.aspx). For more information about SMS scanning tools, see [SMS 2003 Software Update Scanning Tools](http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sms/bb676786.aspx). See also [Downloads for Systems Management Server 2003](http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sms/bb676766.aspx).
  
System Center Configuration Manager 2007 uses WSUS 3.0 for detection of updates. For more information about Configuration Manager 2007 Software Update Management, visit [System Center Configuration Manager 2007](http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb735860.aspx).
  
For more information about SMS, visit the [SMS Web site](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=21158).
  
For more detailed information, see [Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 910723](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/910723): Summary list of monthly detection and deployment guidance articles.
  
**Update Compatibility Evaluator and Application Compatibility Toolkit**
  
Updates often write to the same files and registry settings required for your applications to run. This can trigger incompatibilities and increase the time it takes to deploy security updates. You can streamline testing and validating Windows updates against installed applications with the [Update Compatibility Evaluator](http://technet2.microsoft.com/windowsvista/en/library/4279e239-37a4-44aa-aec5-4e70fe39f9de1033.mspx?mfr=true) components included with [Application Compatibility Toolkit](http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=24da89e9-b581-47b0-b45e-492dd6da2971&displaylang=en).
  
The Application Compatibility Toolkit (ACT) contains the necessary tools and documentation to evaluate and mitigate application compatibility issues before deploying Microsoft Windows Vista, a Windows Update, a Microsoft Security Update, or a new version of Windows Internet Explorer in your environment.
  
Security Update Deployment  
--------------------------
  
**Affected Software**
  
For information about the specific security update for your affected software, click the appropriate link:
  
#### Windows XP (all editions)
  
**Reference Table**
  
The following table contains the security update information for this software. You can find additional information in the subsection, **Deployment Information**, in this section.

 
<p> </p>
<table style="border:1px solid black;">
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Inclusion in Future Service Packs</strong></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">The update for this issue will be included in a future service pack or update rollup</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Deployment</strong></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;"></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Installing without user intervention</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">For Windows XP Service Pack 3:<br />
WindowsXP-KB2476687-x86-enu.exe /quiet</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">For Windows XP Professional x64 Edition Service Pack 2:<br />
WindowsServer2003.WindowsXP-KB2476687-x64-enu.exe /quiet</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Installing without restarting</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">For Windows XP Service Pack 3:<br />
WindowsXP-KB2476687-x86-enu.exe /norestart</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">For Windows XP Professional x64 Edition Service Pack 2:<br />
WindowsServer2003.WindowsXP-KB2476687-x64-enu.exe /norestart</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Update log file</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">KB2476687.log</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Further information</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">See the subsection, <strong>Detection and Deployment Tools and Guidance</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Restart Requirement</strong></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;"></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Restart required?</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Yes, you must restart your system after you apply this security update.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">HotPatching</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Not applicable</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Removal Information</strong></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Use <strong>Add or Remove Programs</strong> tool in Control Panel or the Spuninst.exe utility located in the %Windir%\$NTUninstallKB2476687$\Spuninst folder</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>File Information</strong></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">See <a href="http://support.microsoft.com/kb/2476687">Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 2476687</a></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Registry Key Verification</strong></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">For all supported 32-bit editions of Windows XP:<br />
HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Updates\Windows XP\SP4\KB2476687\Filelist</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">For all supported x64-based editions of Windows XP:<br />
HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Updates\Windows XP Version 2003\SP3\KB2476687\Filelist</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
 

**Note** For supported versions of Windows XP Professional x64 Edition, this security update is the same as supported versions of the Windows Server 2003 x64 Edition security update.

#### Deployment Information

**Installing the Update**

When you install this security update, the installer checks whether one or more of the files that are being updated on your system have previously been updated by a Microsoft hotfix.

If you have previously installed a hotfix to update one of these files, the installer copies the RTMQFE, SP1QFE, or SP2QFE files to your system. Otherwise, the installer copies the RTMGDR, SP1GDR, or SP2GDR files to your system. Security updates may not contain all variations of these files. For more information about this behavior, see [Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 824994](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/824994).

For more information about the installer, see [Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 832475](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/832475).

For more information about the terminology that appears in this bulletin, such as *hotfix*, see [Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 824684](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/824684).

This security update supports the following setup switches.

<p> </p>
<table class="dataTable" style="border:1px solid black;">
<caption>
Supported Security Update Installation Switches
</caption>
<tr class="thead">
<th style="border:1px solid black;" >
Switch
</th>
<th style="border:1px solid black;" >
Description
</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/help**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Displays the command-line options.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th colspan="2" style="border:1px solid black;">
Setup Modes
</th>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/passive**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Unattended Setup mode. No user interaction is required, but installation status is displayed. If a restart is required at the end of Setup, a dialog box will be presented to the user with a timer warning that the computer will restart in 30 seconds.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/quiet**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Quiet mode. This is the same as unattended mode, but no status or error messages are displayed.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th colspan="2" style="border:1px solid black;">
Restart Options
</th>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/norestart**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Does not restart when installation has completed.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/forcerestart**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Restarts the computer after installation and force other applications to close at shutdown without saving open files first.
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/warnrestart\[:x\]**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Presents a dialog box with a timer warning the user that the computer will restart in *x* seconds. (The default setting is 30 seconds.) Intended for use with the **/quiet** switch or the **/passive** switch.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/promptrestart**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Displays a dialog box prompting the local user to allow a restart.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th colspan="2" style="border:1px solid black;">
Special Options
</th>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/overwriteoem**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Overwrites OEM files without prompting.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/nobackup**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Does not back up files needed for uninstall.
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/forceappsclose**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Forces other programs to close when the computer shuts down.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/log:path**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Allows the redirection of installation log files.
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/integrate:path**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Integrates the update into the Windows source files. These files are located at the path that is specified in the switch.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/extract\[:path\]**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Extracts files without starting the Setup program.
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/ER**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Enables extended error reporting.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/verbose**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Enables verbose logging. During installation, creates %Windir%\\CabBuild.log. This log details the files that are copied. Using this switch may cause the installation to proceed more slowly.
</td>
</tr>
</table>
 
**Note** You can combine these switches into one command. For backward compatibility, the security update also supports the setup switches that the earlier version of the Setup program uses. For more information about the supported installation switches, see [Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 262841](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/262841).

**Removing the Update**

This security update supports the following setup switches.

<p> </p>
<table class="dataTable" style="border:1px solid black;">
<caption>
Supported Spuninst.exe Switches
</caption>
<tr class="thead">
<th style="border:1px solid black;" >
Switch
</th>
<th style="border:1px solid black;" >
Description
</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/help**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Displays the command-line options.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th colspan="2" style="border:1px solid black;">
Setup Modes
</th>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/passive**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Unattended Setup mode. No user interaction is required, but installation status is displayed. If a restart is required at the end of Setup, a dialog box will be presented to the user with a timer warning that the computer will restart in 30 seconds.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/quiet**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Quiet mode. This is the same as unattended mode, but no status or error messages are displayed.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th colspan="2" style="border:1px solid black;">
Restart Options
</th>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/norestart**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Does not restart when installation has completed
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/forcerestart**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Restarts the computer after installation and force other applications to close at shutdown without saving open files first.
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/warnrestart\[:x\]**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Presents a dialog box with a timer warning the user that the computer will restart in *x* seconds. (The default setting is 30 seconds.) Intended for use with the **/quiet** switch or the **/passive** switch.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/promptrestart**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Displays a dialog box prompting the local user to allow a restart.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th colspan="2" style="border:1px solid black;">
Special Options
</th>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/forceappsclose**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Forces other programs to close when the computer shuts down.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/log:path**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Allows the redirection of installation log files.
</td>
</tr>
</table>
 
**Verifying That the Update Has Been Applied**

-   **Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer**

    To verify that a security update has been applied to an affected system, you may be able to use the Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer (MBSA) tool. See the section, **Detection and Deployment Tools and Guidance**, earlier in this bulletin for more information.

-   **File Version Verification**

    Because there are several editions of Microsoft Windows, the following steps may be different on your system. If they are, see your product documentation to complete these steps.

    1.  Click **Start**, and then click **Search**.
    2.  In the **Search Results** pane, click **All files and folders** under **Search Companion**.
    3.  In the **All or part of the file name** box, type a file name from the appropriate file information table, and then click **Search**.
    4.  In the list of files, right-click a file name from the appropriate file information table, and then click **Properties**.   
        **Note** Depending on the edition of the operating system, or the programs that are installed on your system, some of the files that are listed in the file information table may not be installed.
    5.  On the **Version** tab, determine the version of the file that is installed on your system by comparing it to the version that is documented in the appropriate file information table.   
        **Note** Attributes other than the file version may change during installation. Comparing other file attributes to the information in the file information table is not a supported method of verifying that the update has been applied. Also, in certain cases, files may be renamed during installation. If the file or version information is not present, use one of the other available methods to verify update installation.

-   **Registry Key Verification**

    You may also be able to verify the files that this security update has installed by reviewing the registry keys listed in the **Reference Table** in this section.

    These registry keys may not contain a complete list of installed files. Also, these registry keys may not be created correctly when an administrator or an OEM integrates or slipstreams this security update into the Windows installation source files.

#### Windows Server 2003 (all editions)

**Reference Table**

The following table contains the security update information for this software. You can find additional information in the subsection, **Deployment Information**, in this section.

 
<p> </p>
<table style="border:1px solid black;">
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Inclusion in Future Service Packs</strong></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">The update for this issue will be included in a future service pack or update rollup</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Deployment</strong></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;"></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Installing without user intervention</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">For all supported 32-bit editions of Windows Server 2003:<br />
WindowsServer2003-KB2476687-x86-enu.exe /quiet</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">For all supported x64-based editions of Windows Server 2003:<br />
WindowsServer2003.WindowsXP-KB2476687-x64-enu.exe /quiet</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">For all supported Itanium-based editions of Windows Server 2003:<br />
WindowsServer2003-KB2476687-ia64-enu.exe /quiet</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Installing without restarting</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">For all supported 32-bit editions of Windows Server 2003:<br />
WindowsServer2003-KB2476687-x86-enu.exe /norestart</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">For all supported x64-based editions of Windows Server 2003:<br />
WindowsServer2003.WindowsXP-KB2476687-x64-enu.exe /norestart</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">For all supported Itanium-based editions of Windows Server 2003:<br />
WindowsServer2003-KB2476687-ia64-enu.exe /norestart</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Update log file</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">KB2476687.log</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Further information</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">See the subsection, <strong>Detection and Deployment Tools and Guidance</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Restart Requirement</strong></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;"></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Restart required?</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Yes, you must restart your system after you apply this security update.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">HotPatching</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">This security update does not support HotPatching. For more information about HotPatching, see <a href="http://support.microsoft.com/kb/897341">Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 897341</a>.</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Removal Information</strong></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">Use <strong>Add or Remove Programs</strong> tool in Control Panel or the Spuninst.exe utility located in the %Windir%\$NTUninstallKB2476687$\Spuninst folder</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>File Information</strong></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">See <a href="http://support.microsoft.com/kb/2476687">Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 2476687</a></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td style="border:1px solid black;"><strong>Registry Key Verification</strong></td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Updates\Windows Server 2003\SP3\KB2476687\Filelist</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
  
#### Deployment Information
  
**Installing the Update**
  
When you install this security update, the installer checks whether one or more of the files that are being updated on your system have previously been updated by a Microsoft hotfix.
  
If you have previously installed a hotfix to update one of these files, the installer copies the RTMQFE, SP1QFE, or SP2QFE files to your system. Otherwise, the installer copies the RTMGDR, SP1GDR, or SP2GDR files to your system. Security updates may not contain all variations of these files. For more information about this behavior, see [Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 824994](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/824994).
  
For more information about the installer, see [Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 832475](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/832475).
  
For more information about the terminology that appears in this bulletin, such as *hotfix*, see [Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 824684](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/824684).
  
This security update supports the following setup switches.
  
<p> </p>
<table class="dataTable" style="border:1px solid black;">
<caption>
Supported Security Update Installation Switches  
</caption>
<tr class="thead">
<th style="border:1px solid black;" >
Switch  
</th>
<th style="border:1px solid black;" >
Description  
</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/help**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Displays the command-line options.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th colspan="2" style="border:1px solid black;">
Setup Modes
</th>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/passive**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Unattended Setup mode. No user interaction is required, but installation status is displayed. If a restart is required at the end of Setup, a dialog box will be presented to the user with a timer warning that the computer will restart in 30 seconds.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/quiet**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Quiet mode. This is the same as unattended mode, but no status or error messages are displayed.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th colspan="2" style="border:1px solid black;">
Restart Options
</th>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/norestart**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Does not restart when installation has completed.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/forcerestart**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Restarts the computer after installation and force other applications to close at shutdown without saving open files first.
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/warnrestart\[:x\]**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Presents a dialog box with a timer warning the user that the computer will restart in *x* seconds. (The default setting is 30 seconds.) Intended for use with the **/quiet** switch or the **/passive** switch.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/promptrestart**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Displays a dialog box prompting the local user to allow a restart.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th colspan="2" style="border:1px solid black;">
Special Options
</th>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/overwriteoem**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Overwrites OEM files without prompting.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/nobackup**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Does not back up files needed for uninstall.
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/forceappsclose**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Forces other programs to close when the computer shuts down.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/log:path**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Allows the redirection of installation log files.
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/integrate:path**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Integrates the update into the Windows source files. These files are located at the path that is specified in the switch.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/extract\[:path\]**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Extracts files without starting the Setup program.
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/ER**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Enables extended error reporting.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/verbose**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Enables verbose logging. During installation, creates %Windir%\\CabBuild.log. This log details the files that are copied. Using this switch may cause the installation to proceed more slowly.
</td>
</tr>
</table>
 
**Note** You can combine these switches into one command. For backward compatibility, the security update also supports many of the setup switches that the earlier version of the Setup program uses. For more information about the supported installation switches, see [Microsoft Knowledge Base Article 262841](http://support.microsoft.com/kb/262841).

**Removing the Update**

This security update supports the following setup switches.

<p> </p>
<table class="dataTable" style="border:1px solid black;">
<caption>
Supported Spuninst.exe Switches
</caption>
<tr class="thead">
<th style="border:1px solid black;" >
Switch
</th>
<th style="border:1px solid black;" >
Description
</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/help**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Displays the command-line options.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th colspan="2" style="border:1px solid black;">
Setup Modes
</th>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/passive**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Unattended Setup mode. No user interaction is required, but installation status is displayed. If a restart is required at the end of Setup, a dialog box will be presented to the user with a timer warning that the computer will restart in 30 seconds.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/quiet**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Quiet mode. This is the same as unattended mode, but no status or error messages are displayed.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th colspan="2" style="border:1px solid black;">
Restart Options
</th>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/norestart**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Does not restart when installation has completed.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/forcerestart**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Restarts the computer after installation and force other applications to close at shutdown without saving open files first.
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/warnrestart\[:x\]**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Presents a dialog box with a timer warning the user that the computer will restart in *x* seconds. (The default setting is 30 seconds.) Intended for use with the **/quiet** switch or the **/passive** switch.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/promptrestart**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Displays a dialog box prompting the local user to allow a restart.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th colspan="2" style="border:1px solid black;">
Special Options
</th>
</tr>
<tr class="alternateRow">
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/forceappsclose**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Forces other programs to close when the computer shuts down.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
**/log:path**
</td>
<td style="border:1px solid black;">
Allows the redirection of installation log files.
</td>
</tr>
</table>
 
**Verifying that the Update Has Been Applied**

-   **Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer**

    To verify that a security update has been applied to an affected system, you may be able to use the Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer (MBSA) tool. See the section, **Detection and Deployment Tools and Guidance**, earlier in this bulletin for more information.

-   **File Version Verification**

    Because there are several editions of Microsoft Windows, the following steps may be different on your system. If they are, see your product documentation to complete these steps.

    1.  Click **Start**, and then click **Search**.
    2.  In the **Search Results** pane, click **All files and folders** under **Search Companion**.
    3.  In the **All or part of the file name** box, type a file name from the appropriate file information table, and then click **Search**.
    4.  In the list of files, right-click a file name from the appropriate file information table, and then click **Properties**.   
        **Note** Depending on the edition of the operating system, or the programs that are installed on your system, some of the files that are listed in the file information table may not be installed.
    5.  On the **Version** tab, determine the version of the file that is installed on your system by comparing it to the version that is documented in the appropriate file information table.   
        **Note** Attributes other than the file version may change during installation. Comparing other file attributes to the information in the file information table is not a supported method of verifying that the update has been applied. Also, in certain cases, files may be renamed during installation. If the file or version information is not present, use one of the other available methods to verify update installation.

-   **Registry Key Verification**

    You may also be able to verify the files that this security update has installed by reviewing the registry keys listed in the **Reference Table** in this section.

    These registry keys may not contain a complete list of installed files. Also, these registry keys may not be created correctly when an administrator or an OEM integrates or slipstreams this security update into the Windows installation source files.

### Other Information

#### Acknowledgments

Microsoft [thanks](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=21127) the following for working with us to help protect customers:

-   Sihan Qing (Professor), Weiping Wen (Associate Professor), Liang Yin and Husheng Zhou (Graduate students), [Department of Information Security, Beijing University](http://www.ss.pku.edu.cn/en/), for reporting the CSRSS Elevation of Privilege Vulnerability (CVE-2011-0030)

#### Microsoft Active Protections Program (MAPP)

To improve security protections for customers, Microsoft provides vulnerability information to major security software providers in advance of each monthly security update release. Security software providers can then use this vulnerability information to provide updated protections to customers via their security software or devices, such as antivirus, network-based intrusion detection systems, or host-based intrusion prevention systems. To determine whether active protections are available from security software providers, please visit the active protections Web sites provided by program partners, listed in [Microsoft Active Protections Program (MAPP) Partners](http://www.microsoft.com/security/msrc/mapp/partners.mspx).

#### Support

-   Customers in the U.S. and Canada can receive technical support from [Security Support](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=21131) or 1-866-PCSAFETY. There is no charge for support calls that are associated with security updates. For more information about available support options, see [Microsoft Help and Support](http://support.microsoft.com/).
-   International customers can receive support from their local Microsoft subsidiaries. There is no charge for support that is associated with security updates. For more information about how to contact Microsoft for support issues, visit the [International Support Web site](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=21155).

#### Disclaimer

The information provided in the Microsoft Knowledge Base is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind. Microsoft disclaims all warranties, either express or implied, including the warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. In no event shall Microsoft Corporation or its suppliers be liable for any damages whatsoever including direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, loss of business profits or special damages, even if Microsoft Corporation or its suppliers have been advised of the possibility of such damages. Some states do not allow the exclusion or limitation of liability for consequential or incidental damages so the foregoing limitation may not apply.

#### Revisions

-   V1.0 (February 8, 2011): Bulletin published.

*Built at 2014-04-18T01:50:00Z-07:00*
